README.md, before:

# DeepRacer-For-Dummies
Provides a quick and easy way to get up and running with a local deepracer training environment using Docker Compose.
This repo just creates a wrapper around the amazing work done by Alex found here: https://github.com/alexschultz/deepracer-for-dummies.
This repo adds some additional functionanlity such as a GUI and a lot of under-the-hood improvements.
Please refer to his repo to understand more about what's going on under the covers.
For additional help, submit an issue or join the [deepracer slack](join.deepracing.io) for some more support. 

# Getting Started
---
#### Prerequisites

* This project is specifically built to run on Ubuntu 18.04 with an **Nvidia GPU**. It is assumed you already have **CUDA/CUDNN** installed and configured.

* You also need to have **Docker** installed as well as the **Nvidia-Docker** runtime.

* You should have an AWS account with the **AWS cli** installed. The credentials should be located in your home directory (~/.aws/credentials)

* ensure you have **vncviewer** installed

#### NOTE: If you already have these prerequisites setup then you can simply run the init.sh script described in the **Initialization** section. If you are setting everything up for the first time, then the information provided here can help you to get your environment ready to use this repo.


#### Local Environment Setup

If you are running Windows and would like to use this repo, you will need to modify the process to get everything to run on Windows (not recommended as you will not be able to take advantage of the GPU during training) Many users have found it useful to dual-boot (Windows/Linux). There are many tutorials online for how to do this. You can follow the instructions provided below as guidance.

##### * Installing Ubuntu 18.04 with Windows 10

https://medium.com/bigdatarepublic/dual-boot-windows-and-linux-aa281c3c01f9

When it gets to the Disk Management part, to make space for your Ubuntu installation, followed this guide and specifically look at the 2nd method (MiniTool Partition Wizard):

https://win10faq.com/shrink-partition-windows-10/?source=post_page---------------------------
##### * Installing the AWS CLI

	pip install -U awscli
	
Then Follow this: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html

##### * Installing Docker-ce (steps from https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/ )

	sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc
	sudo apt-get update
	
	  sudo apt-get install \
    apt-transport-https \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    gnupg-agent \
    software-properties-common

    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-key fingerprint 0EBFCD88
	
    sudo add-apt-repository \
    "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
    $(lsb_release -cs) \
    stable"
        
	  sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io

Verify docker works

	sudo docker run hello-world

##### 3. Installing Docker-compose (from https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose )
        
    curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.24.1/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o     /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose

Verify installation

    docker-compose --version
	
###### NOTE: You can also choose to install docker-compose via another package manager (i.e. pip or conda), but if you do, make sure to do so in a virtual env.  Many OS’s have python system packages that conflict with docker-compose dependencies. ######

Additionally, make sure your user-id can run docker without sudo (from https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/linux-postinstall/ )
        
	sudo groupadd docker
	sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

Log out and log back in so that your group membership is re-evaluated.

And configure Docker to start on boot.

    sudo systemctl enable docker

##### * Preparing for nvidia-docker

The NVIDIA Container Toolkit allows users to build and run GPU accelerated Docker containers.  
Nvidia-docker essentially exposes the GPU to the containers to use:  https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker

You may want to note what you have installed currently.

        sudo apt list --installed | grep nvidia

Then prepare for clean installation of Nvidia drivers.

        sudo apt-get purge nvidia*  

##### Installing nvidia-docker runtime (from https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0) )

    distribution=$(. /etc/os-release;echo $ID$VERSION_ID)
	curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | sudo apt-key add -
	curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/$distribution/nvidia-docker.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get install nvidia-docker2
	sudo pkill -SIGHUP dockerd

##### * Installing the proper nvidia drivers

Check for driver version here according to your GPU(s):  https://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us
In the dropdown for OS, choose “show all OS’s” to see if there are Ubuntu specific choices.  Otherwise choose Linux.
If you get a dropdown for “cuda toolkit”, choose 10.0)

	sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt install nvidia-driver-410 && sudo reboot 
	
###### NOTE: 410 is a driver version that is compatible with the GPU I selected on the Nvidia website. ######

Verify the driver installation:
	
	nvidia-smi
	nvcc --version  

##### * Installing VNC viewer on your local machine

This doc is straight forward: https://www.techspot.com/downloads/5760-vnc-viewer.html

### Using the GUI

We've made a GUI to make training locally as simple as possible. Follow [this guide](https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/how-to-improve-your-local-deepracer-workflow-23a76d12a1a9) for using the GUI.
If you are receiving segmentation fault errors try rebuilding the GUI using `qmake gui.pro` and `make` in the `/gui` directory. Then rerun `./gui` to see if your problem has been fixed.

### Training Manually
###### NOTE: You can apparently use Anaconda instead to install CUDA/CUDNN. I have not tried this, however some users have and have reported that this method is much easier. If you use this approach, you will need to first install Anaconda.  Once installed you can then use the conda package manager to install the desired versions of CUDA and cuDNN.  The following installation configuration has been reported to work together successfully ######

##### Downloading Anaconda

	sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
	cd /tmp/
	sudo wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh

##### Installing Anaconda

	bash Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh
	"yes" for using the default directory location
	“yes” for running conda init

##### Activating Anaconda  
	
	source ~/.bashrc
	
##### Verifying the conda package manager works

    conda list

##### Installing CUDA/CUDNN

    conda install cudnn==7.3.1 && conda install -c fragcolor cuda10.0

#### Environment

This guide was built to run on Ubuntu 18.04. We know it runs on Ubuntu 16.04, and there's reports on it running on OS X and Windows as well, if you've managed to make it run on those platforms, submit a issue ticket and let us know, we'd love to know how you did it! 

Follow these guides for setting up the environment and getting started:

https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/how-to-run-deepracer-locally-to-save-your-wallet-13ccc878687

##### 11. Run Init.sh from this repo (refer to the rest of this doc for script details) 

In a command prompt, simply run "./init.sh".
This will set everything up so you can run the deepracer local training environment.


**init.sh** performs these steps so you don't have to do them manually:
1. Clones Chris's repo:  https://github.com/crr0004/deepracer.git
2. Does a mkdir -p ~/.sagemaker && cp config.yaml ~/.sagemaker
3. Sets the image name in rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py  to "crr0004/sagemaker-rl-tensorflow:nvidia”
4. Also sets the instance_type in rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py to “local_gpu”
5. Copies the reward.py and model-metadata files into your Minio bucket

To start or stop the local deepracer training, use the scripts found in the scripts directory.

Here is a brief overview of the available scripts:

#### Scripts

* training
	* start.sh
		* starts the whole environment using docker compose
		* it will also open a terminal window where you can monitor the log output from the sagemaker training directory
		* it will also automatically open vncviewer so you can watch the training happening in Gazebo
		* For the memoryManager.py make sure to enter your user password into the opened terminal in order to run the program in sudo
	* stop.sh
		* stops the whole environment
		* automatically finds and stops the training container which was started from the sagemaker container
	* upload-snapshot.sh
		* uploads a specific snapshot to S3 in AWS. If no checkpoint is provided, it attempts to retrieve the latest snapshot
	* set-last-run-to-pretrained.sh
		* renames the last training run directory from ***rl-deepracer-sagemaker*** to ***rl-deepracer-pretrained*** so that you can use it as a starting point for a new training run.
	* delete-last-run.sh
		* (WARNING: this script deletes files on your system. I take no responsibility for any resulting actions by running this script. Please look at what the script is doing before running it so that you understand)
		* deletes the last training run including all of the snapshots and log files. You will need sudo to run this command.


* evaluation
	* start.sh
		* starts the whole environment using docker compose to run an evaluation run
		* it will also open a terminal window where you can monitor the log output from the sagemaker training directory
		* it will also automatically open vncviewer so you can watch the training happening in Gazebo
	* stop.sh
		* stops the whole environment
		* automatically finds and stops the training container which was started from the sagemaker container

* log-analysis
	* start.sh
		* starts a container with Nvidia-Docker running jupyter labs with the log analysis notebooks which were originally provided by AWS and then extended by  Tomasz Ptak
		* the logs from robomaker are automatically mounted in the container so you don't have to move any files around
		* in order to get to the container, look at the log output from when it starts. You need to grab the URL including the token query parameter and then paste it into the brower at **localhost:8888**.
	* stop.sh
		* stops the log-analysis container
		
#### Uploading to the DeepRacer League
Once you've trained your model, you can upload your model to be evaluated and submitted to the DeepRacer league. Follow the guide linked below:

https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/uploading-a-locally-trained-deepracer-model-to-aws-c9ed8262232b

#### Hyperparameters

You can modify training hyperparameters from the file **rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py**.

#### Action Space & Reward Function

The action-space and reward function files are located in the **deepracer-for-dummies/docker/volumes/minio/bucket/custom_files** directory

#### Track Selection

The track selection is controled via an environment variable in the **.env** file located in the **deepracer-for-dummies/docker** directory

Commit message:

Change analysis url, made paths absolute, and other clean ups

README.md, after:

# DeepRacer-For-Dummies
Provides a quick and easy way to get up and running with a local deepracer training environment using Docker Compose.
This repo just creates a wrapper around the amazing work done by Alex found here: https://github.com/alexschultz/deepracer-for-dummies.
This repo adds some additional functionanlity such as a GUI and a lot of under-the-hood improvements.
Please refer to his repo to understand more about what's going on under the covers.
For additional help, submit an issue or join the [deepracer slack](join.deepracing.io) for some more support. 

# Getting Started
---
#### Prerequisites

* This project is specifically built to run on Ubuntu 18.04 with an **Nvidia GPU**. It is assumed you already have **CUDA/CUDNN** installed and configured.

* You also need to have **Docker** installed as well as the **Nvidia-Docker** runtime.

* You should have an AWS account with the **AWS cli** installed. The credentials should be located in your home directory (~/.aws/credentials)

* ensure you have **vncviewer** installed

#### NOTE: If you already have these prerequisites setup then you can simply run the init.sh script described in the **Initialization** section. If you are setting everything up for the first time, then the information provided here can help you to get your environment ready to use this repo.


#### Local Environment Setup

If you are running Windows and would like to use this repo, you will need to modify the process to get everything to run on Windows (not recommended as you will not be able to take advantage of the GPU during training) Many users have found it useful to dual-boot (Windows/Linux). There are many tutorials online for how to do this. You can follow the instructions provided below as guidance.

##### * Installing Ubuntu 18.04 with Windows 10

https://medium.com/bigdatarepublic/dual-boot-windows-and-linux-aa281c3c01f9

When it gets to the Disk Management part, to make space for your Ubuntu installation, followed this guide and specifically look at the 2nd method (MiniTool Partition Wizard):

https://win10faq.com/shrink-partition-windows-10/?source=post_page---------------------------
##### * Installing the AWS CLI

	pip install -U awscli
	
Then Follow this: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html

##### * Installing Docker-ce (steps from https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/ )

	sudo apt-get remove docker docker-engine docker.io containerd runc
	sudo apt-get update
	
	  sudo apt-get install \
    apt-transport-https \
    ca-certificates \
    curl \
    gnupg-agent \
    software-properties-common

    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
    sudo apt-key fingerprint 0EBFCD88
	
    sudo add-apt-repository \
    "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
    $(lsb_release -cs) \
    stable"
        
	  sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io

Verify docker works

	sudo docker run hello-world

##### 3. Installing Docker-compose (from https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/#install-compose )
        
    curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.24.1/docker-compose-`uname -s`-`uname -m` -o     /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose

Verify installation

    docker-compose --version
	
###### NOTE: You can also choose to install docker-compose via another package manager (i.e. pip or conda), but if you do, make sure to do so in a virtual env.  Many OS’s have python system packages that conflict with docker-compose dependencies. ######

Additionally, make sure your user-id can run docker without sudo (from https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/linux-postinstall/ )
        
	sudo groupadd docker
	sudo usermod -aG docker $USER

Log out and log back in so that your group membership is re-evaluated.

And configure Docker to start on boot.

    sudo systemctl enable docker

##### * Preparing for nvidia-docker

The NVIDIA Container Toolkit allows users to build and run GPU accelerated Docker containers.  
Nvidia-docker essentially exposes the GPU to the containers to use:  https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker

You may want to note what you have installed currently.

        sudo apt list --installed | grep nvidia

Then prepare for clean installation of Nvidia drivers.

        sudo apt-get purge nvidia*  

##### Installing nvidia-docker runtime (from https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0) )

    distribution=$(. /etc/os-release;echo $ID$VERSION_ID)
	curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/gpgkey | sudo apt-key add -
	curl -s -L https://nvidia.github.io/nvidia-docker/$distribution/nvidia-docker.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nvidia-docker.list
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt-get install nvidia-docker2
	sudo pkill -SIGHUP dockerd

##### * Installing the proper nvidia drivers

Check for driver version here according to your GPU(s):  https://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us
In the dropdown for OS, choose “show all OS’s” to see if there are Ubuntu specific choices.  Otherwise choose Linux.
If you get a dropdown for “cuda toolkit”, choose 10.0)

	sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers
	sudo apt-get update
	sudo apt install nvidia-driver-410 && sudo reboot 
	
###### NOTE: 410 is a driver version that is compatible with the GPU I selected on the Nvidia website. ######

Verify the driver installation:
	
	nvidia-smi
	nvcc --version  

##### * Installing VNC viewer on your local machine

This doc is straight forward: https://www.techspot.com/downloads/5760-vnc-viewer.html

### Using the GUI

We've made a GUI to make training locally as simple as possible. Follow [this guide](https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/how-to-improve-your-local-deepracer-workflow-23a76d12a1a9) for using the GUI.
If you are receiving segmentation fault errors try rebuilding the GUI using `qmake gui.pro` and `make` in the `/gui` directory. Then rerun `./gui` to see if your problem has been fixed.
If you have problems with the log analysis tool make sure that you have installed virtualenv for python. `sudo apt-get install virtualenv`

### Training Manually
###### NOTE: You can apparently use Anaconda instead to install CUDA/CUDNN. I have not tried this, however some users have and have reported that this method is much easier. If you use this approach, you will need to first install Anaconda.  Once installed you can then use the conda package manager to install the desired versions of CUDA and cuDNN.  The following installation configuration has been reported to work together successfully ######

##### Downloading Anaconda

	sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
	cd /tmp/
	sudo wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh

##### Installing Anaconda

	bash Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh
	"yes" for using the default directory location
	“yes” for running conda init

##### Activating Anaconda  
	
	source ~/.bashrc
	
##### Verifying the conda package manager works

    conda list

##### Installing CUDA/CUDNN

    conda install cudnn==7.3.1 && conda install -c fragcolor cuda10.0

#### Environment

This guide was built to run on Ubuntu 18.04. We know it runs on Ubuntu 16.04, and there's reports on it running on OS X and Windows as well, if you've managed to make it run on those platforms, submit a issue ticket and let us know, we'd love to know how you did it! 

Follow these guides for setting up the environment and getting started:

https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/how-to-run-deepracer-locally-to-save-your-wallet-13ccc878687

##### 11. Run Init.sh from this repo (refer to the rest of this doc for script details) 

In a command prompt, simply run "./init.sh".
This will set everything up so you can run the deepracer local training environment.


**init.sh** performs these steps so you don't have to do them manually:
1. Clones Chris's repo:  https://github.com/crr0004/deepracer.git
2. Does a mkdir -p ~/.sagemaker && cp config.yaml ~/.sagemaker
3. Sets the image name in rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py  to "crr0004/sagemaker-rl-tensorflow:nvidia”
4. Also sets the instance_type in rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py to “local_gpu”
5. Copies the reward.py and model-metadata files into your Minio bucket

To start or stop the local deepracer training, use the scripts found in the scripts directory.

Here is a brief overview of the available scripts:

#### Scripts

* training
	* start.sh
		* starts the whole environment using docker compose
		* it will also open a terminal window where you can monitor the log output from the sagemaker training directory
		* it will also automatically open vncviewer so you can watch the training happening in Gazebo
		* For the memoryManager.py make sure to enter your user password into the opened terminal in order to run the program in sudo
	* stop.sh
		* stops the whole environment
		* automatically finds and stops the training container which was started from the sagemaker container
	* upload-snapshot.sh
		* uploads a specific snapshot to S3 in AWS. If no checkpoint is provided, it attempts to retrieve the latest snapshot
	* set-last-run-to-pretrained.sh
		* renames the last training run directory from ***rl-deepracer-sagemaker*** to ***rl-deepracer-pretrained*** so that you can use it as a starting point for a new training run.
	* delete-last-run.sh
		* (WARNING: this script deletes files on your system. I take no responsibility for any resulting actions by running this script. Please look at what the script is doing before running it so that you understand)
		* deletes the last training run including all of the snapshots and log files. You will need sudo to run this command.


* evaluation
	* start.sh
		* starts the whole environment using docker compose to run an evaluation run
		* it will also open a terminal window where you can monitor the log output from the sagemaker training directory
		* it will also automatically open vncviewer so you can watch the training happening in Gazebo
	* stop.sh
		* stops the whole environment
		* automatically finds and stops the training container which was started from the sagemaker container

* log-analysis
	* start.sh
		* starts a container with Nvidia-Docker running jupyter labs with the log analysis notebooks which were originally provided by AWS and then extended by  Tomasz Ptak
		* the logs from robomaker are automatically mounted in the container so you don't have to move any files around
		* in order to get to the container, look at the log output from when it starts. You need to grab the URL including the token query parameter and then paste it into the brower at **localhost:8888**.
	* stop.sh
		* stops the log-analysis container
		
#### Uploading to the DeepRacer League
Once you've trained your model, you can upload your model to be evaluated and submitted to the DeepRacer league. Follow the guide linked below:

https://medium.com/@autonomousracecarclub/uploading-a-locally-trained-deepracer-model-to-aws-c9ed8262232b

#### Hyperparameters

You can modify training hyperparameters from the file **rl_deepracer_coach_robomaker.py**.

#### Action Space & Reward Function

The action-space and reward function files are located in the **deepracer-for-dummies/docker/volumes/minio/bucket/custom_files** directory

#### Track Selection

The track selection is controled via an environment variable in the **.env** file located in the **deepracer-for-dummies/docker** directory
